so you've got a legal research project to tackle or maybe you want to look up a case for one of

your classes or maybe you're looking for a simple easy way to get up to speed on a legal doctrine

or concept westlow has you covered in seconds you can find all the cases statutes or references you

need it's as easy as typing in a plain language search or dropping a citation into a search bar

and if you're looking to dig deeper into your research westlow's cutting-edge technology will

do all the work for you first no matter what you're looking for typing a plain language search

into the global search bar at the top of every page on westlow will often get it for you no

experience or expertise required just pretend you're typing in a search on your favorite

browser westlow's search technology will jump into action using artificial intelligence to find cases

references and other materials you're interested in even if they don't mention the exact words you

search for for example say you're looking for a famous case you were assigned in your torts class

pulse graph versus long island you don't have the citation or any other information handy why not

just try a plain language search you type in pulse graph versus long island into the global search

bar and voila the first result is the case you were assigned it was that easy or let's say you're

looking for a reference to help you understand the defenses to trespass in your legal writing class

just type in what are the defenses to trespass westlow not only gives you the cases and references to

get up to speed but also gives you responsive answers to thousands of questions like this

it literally answers your questions for you and if you have the citation for a case statute or other

legal document just drop it right in the search bar and westlow will take you there if you have

multiple citations you want to search for at the same time just type find colon then enter your

citations separated by semicolons so if you have two citations type this into the search bar and both

will be pulled for you instantly second use precision technology to narrow in on the cases you care about

precision filters leverage hundreds of westlow's expert research attorneys who have identified attributes you care

about and using precision technology is easy after running a search use precision filters to find cases that

address specific legal issues fact patterns causes of action motion types or party types that you are

most interested in you can also search directly using precision technology by entering keywords

directly into each attribute and combining them to create the perfect targeted search third revisit

your searches in history anytime it happens to us all you searched for something last week and saw a

document resource and now you need it but can't remember where you found it westlow makes it easy

to revisit your research anytime if you want to save a search to use it later just click the arrow to the

right of the global search bar and store your favorite searches or head over to the history tab for a list of

every search you've used and every document you've viewed you can even see a graphical view of your search

history and retrace your steps in moments you'll never lose a document again fourth use the key

number system to browse legal issues you are interested in on westlaw expert research attorneys

have identified the legal issues in each published decision out there summarize those issues in a quick

summary called a headnote and then assign a topic and key number to that issue in the key number system

this makes it possible to instantly zoom in and find cases addressing any legal issue you can imagine

all you need to do is click key numbers from the main content page then search for the issue you care

about once you've found a helpful issue click the key number and explore all the cases out there

that address it you can also click on key numbers within any cases you've already found to jump to other cases

addressing the same issue fifth check the status of a citation in keysight if you're using a case

for a research project you'll always need to be sure it's good law in other words that other cases

haven't overruled it type the keysight command keysight or kc followed by a colon in the citation in the

search box for example kc colon 835 f3d23 and you'll instantly have a breakdown displaying any negative

treatment of your case or statute and when you're reviewing results from any search just look out for

the keysight flags next to the case or statute title these flags will instantly tell you if a case has been

overruled a red flag merely received some negative treatment a yellow flag been overruled as to at least one point of law

a red striped flag or appealed a blue striped flag westlaw will even signal if a case has been implicitly

overruled because of recent developments in the law even if no source explicitly overruled it just

look for the orange caution symbol next to any case keysight will also list out every other case or

source that cited your case making it easy to find other useful authority once you've already found a

good case for your project just click on citing references when viewing any case or statute six use

folders to organize analyze and share your research you can use folders to store and organize your

research create notes on documents and share your research with colleagues all you have to do is

highlight any text in a document and click save to folder or select a case or other source in any list of

search results and click the folder icon on the right side of the page instantly your document or

highlighted text is saved into a folder for later once you've saved research in a folder you can

create a research report to send a professional report summarizing the research in your folder

making it quick and easy to share your research and annotations with others you can also click the

folder analysis icon which will automatically figure out the legal issues present in your folder

and make suggestions for additional relevant cases and statutes to help expand your research

seventh find the information you need quicker than ever before westlaw does the hard work for you so

that you can sit back and browse for that perfect case or resource when searching for cases a browse box will pop up on

many decisions distilling the legal issues the material facts and how the case was decided other cases will display the

best head note from the case that is the most critical legal issue that the case tackled with

these quick snapshots prepared by expert research attorneys you can know whether a case is useful

before you even read it eighth print or deliver a document with a click once you've found a useful

document taking it with you is easy to deliver any document select the arrow next to the delivery

icon in the upper right hand corner of the toolbar and choose email print download dropbox or

kindle from the menu it's that easy ninth grab citations and quotes right from westlaw without even

picking up a blue book if you're working on a research project chances or you'll need some quotes and citations

from the research you found worry not because westlaw has that handled for you simply highlight any text in any

document select the type of citation you'd like to use and copy the text with reference now when you paste the quote

the citation will be written for you complete with the pin site finally use westlaw's other cutting-edge tools

to take your research up a notch looking for other powerful research tools like quick check

which will automatically research all the citations in a document you upload or practical law

which offers a host of practical checklists and practice notes just click the tools tab

right above the search bar and see all the cool ways that westlaw can help you tackle your research projects

does this all sound simple that's because it is westlaw leverages the most powerful legal research

technology in the world but using that technology is as easy as typing in a quick search

so hop on to westlaw and see how easy it is to tackle your next legal research project

so hop on to westlaw next level

Court decisions, also called cases, are often the key authority you need to tackle your

research projects.

Luckily, Westlaw makes it a breeze to find the perfect cases that will get you the answers

you need.

Let's start with some basic case concepts, and then we'll explore some case research

in action.

Before diving in, you'll need some basic information about what sort of cases you're

looking for.

Start by noting the jurisdictions most relevant to your research project.

Usually, this will be the state or federal jurisdiction that your research project is

based in.

You'll also want to note the main legal and factual points raised by your issue.

Westlaw offers many tools to help you find just that right case.

But the simplest way to get started is a plain language search.

That's as easy as typing in keywords, just as if you were searching for something on

the internet.

Westlaw uses sophisticated AI combined with attorney expertise to find helpful cases based

on your search language, even if a case doesn't use the same exact words that you typed in.

the case easily used filters to limit your search results based on when a case was decided,

whether it's reported, the legal issues it discusses, the causes of action involved, and

much more.

After you've found a case that you think might be useful, Westlaw offers several tools that

will make it easy to figure out what the case is about and whether it will help you with

your research project, without making you read the whole case.

Most cases on Westlaw begin with a synopsis, which is a summary of the case, including the

most relevant facts, holdings, and outcomes, allowing you to instantly check if a case

relates to the issues you're researching.

After the synopsis, you'll find summaries of the legal issues and holdings in the case, called

headnotes.

Headnotes are created by attorney editors at Westlaw.

Basically, our attorneys have already read the case, pulled out the most useful legal

issues, and summarized them for you.

If the synopsis or headnotes discuss issues you think are important to your research project,

you'll know the case is worth reading more carefully.

If not, you can quickly move on to the next case and save hours in research time.

But headnotes do more than just offer a snapshot of legal issues and holdings.

Westlaw categorizes every headnote within the key number system.

This system connects headnotes across cases, allowing you to instantly jump into other cases

that have discussed the same legal issue.

The key number system does even more though.

Westlaw and our attorney editors take all of those headnotes and organize them into topics.

That way you can explore relevant issues within a topic, even if you aren't sure how to create

your own search to find them.

With the click of the button, you can see all the cases out there having the same conversation.

It's like using a hashtag within a legal research platform.

A final basic tool you should know about when it comes to cases is the key site flag system.

An important part of analyzing a case is to know whether other courts or statutes have

overruled, distinguished, or followed the case.

If you see a yellow flag next to a case name, this means there is some negative treatment

of the case, but it hasn't yet been overruled.

A red flag warns that the case has been overruled and there are other flag types that will provide

even more information about how the case has been treated.

Let's now see how these concepts come together in a real research project.

Andrea is doing research on a disability discrimination claim under the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA.

The client has sued their employer, a software company, because it didn't provide

Andrea's client with reasonable accommodations. First, Andrea needs to jump in and find her cases.

She knows the ADA lawsuit is filed in California Federal Court, which is in the Ninth Circuit,

so she first selects the Ninth Circuit as a relevant jurisdiction.

Andrea knows that the issue she's researching is about reasonable accommodations under the ADA,

so that makes for an easy keyword search.

As she starts typing, Westlaw is already making suggestions for helpful resources.

She can go directly into these resources, or just click to run her search.

Andrea first sees Westlaw's recommended head notes right here at the top.

She can jump straight into one of those head notes, or she can store or filter the full results

to narrow in on cases that she's most interested in.

Some common ways to filter results, or the date the decision was issued,

the key number, which, remember, is just an organized list of all the head notes out there,

or the reporting status.

Westlaw offers you other exclusive ways to filter, too.

You can narrow in on cases that discuss a particular legal issue, a similar fact pattern to your

case, cases that deal with causes of action relevant to your issue, and more.

Sometimes you need to narrow your search results by looking for a particular fact or sub-issue.

Use the Search Within Results feature to easily narrow a search into a more specific topic.

Andrea eventually decides to jump into the first case that Westlaw suggested, Ravel vs Hewlett Packard.

She sees several head notes mentioning reasonable accommodations.

Great, she's on the right track.

This case has a yellow flag up top, which means that other cases or authorities may have treated it negatively,

like by distinguishing its holding.

Andrea clicks on the citing references tab, and sees that several cases have indeed distinguished the Ravel case,

so those will be important to read later, but Ravel is likely still good law.

Back in the case, Andrea finds a great quote that she thinks will be helpful to her research project.

She highlights the text.

She can save the text to an outline.

Add her research to a folder, making it easy to find later.

She can add color-coded notes or highlights.

Or, she can copy the text with a reference.

You can see there are a variety of citation options available.

Now Andrea can paste the text she copied in her own document, and the citation will already be written for her.

That's it!

Andrea jumped into Westlaw and used several features to find helpful cases, and it took only moments.

Now head to Westlaw, and see how easy it is to find that perfect case.

Ravel installs it?

Yeah, I can see.

It is a great quote.

Because theidoffistry's wasn't so unique to her.

It is not an exact question.

So I talk about them!

It is基本.

Go, in the comments!

You should have read about information, but you are learning that or you need to know about the original by the test.

It is ludicrous law and rules ikiWAP constanteluES will change management andregulatorybaix.

Por 나타�ini!

As an example of this one as stating, this one is not a total!

Thirdright training and calculators, they're notningenous, but theikeyons is communion.

We also teach animals because people are lying.

You don't see names from others.

But still in terms of being an orderland, unless they have a better plan,

lacking the file which is offering.

Thank you.

We'll be right back.

For cases, a yellow flag indicates some negative treatment, a red flag indicates the case has been reversed, and a red striped flag indicates that the case is no longer good law for at least one issue.

A blue and white striped flag indicates a case has been appealed and is awaiting a decision, and the orange triangle indicates the case may no longer be good law because of its reliance on an overruled decision.

The orange triangle is more than it seems. Case cites overruling risk, uses artificial intelligence to identify possible bad law even when no direct citations from overruling authority are present.

No other tool does this.

For statutes, there are just two flags.

A red flag indicates the statute has been amended, repealed, superseded, or held unconstitutional or preempted in whole or in court.

A yellow flag indicates the statute or court rule has been renumbered, that proposed legislation affecting the statute is available, that the statute or court rule was limited, or that its validity was otherwise called into doubt, or that yellow flag may indicate that a prior version of the statute or court rule received some negative treatment from a court.

Case cites is always at work verifying your authorities, including for any authorities you place in Westlaw folders.

Because the law is always changing, it's possible that today's good law can turn bad tomorrow, so you can set up case cites alerts to monitor your documents and send you updates, just in case a future authority casts shadow on the authority you plan to use for your research project.

With case cites history, you can see how a case moves through the court system visually, explore what happened at the trial court level, related cases, appellate cases, and more.

This feature can give you insights into a case that otherwise would be impossible when reading it in isolation.

The citing references tab offers you a simple breakdown of all the sources that have cited to the document you're viewing.

This includes any other cases that have interpreted the document, secondary sources that have cited it, and more.

This is an easy way to check and see how more recent cases have treated a prior one, or just to find other similar cases or resources that might be worth researching.

Other than just showing you which sources have cited a document, Westlaw can also show you what sources have been cited together with your document.

This can help you gain valuable insights into what other authorities are frequently used in conjunction with the source you're interested in.

Instantly see other sources cited in the same paragraph, the same string site, and more.

This is another simple tool that can give you ideas about what other sources may be helpful to your project.

Finally, while citing references lets you understand how others have treated your document, the table of authorities quickly lets you see a list of authorities that your document relied on.

If a case relied on bad law, for an example, you can see that in a glance.

Let's see how Keysight makes your research projects easier.

Julian has gathered a few key cases from his team that he plans to include in a research memo analyzing a client's disability discrimination case.

But he needs to confirm these cases are still good law.

He also wants to do some more research on issues raised in these cases to see if he can find other helpful authorities to finish his project.

Julian opens his first case, Adair v. City of Muskogee.

He immediately notices the yellow flag by the case's name, which suggests this case has received some negative treatment, but it has not been reversed or overruled.

To dig deeper into why and how others have viewed it negatively, he clicks on the flag.

He sees the most negative case is Bay v. City of New York.

On the right side, Westfall highlights what legal issues, or head notes, that Bay is negative treatment about.

Julian can also jump into Bay now, click the search term button, and see exactly what this case said about the original case he's interested in using.

It turns out that Bay dealt with a federal rule, and Adair dealt with an unofficial internal policy, which is what all the disagreement is about.

Julian is interested in Adair for reasons unrelated to this issue, so he decides to move on.

He jumps over the history tab and can see the single trial court decision that led to this appellate decision.

There's also one related case that may be helpful to review as well.

Julian decides that he's ready to look for other helpful cases, so he jumps into citing references.

On the left, he quickly sees every source that has cited this case.

He can explore secondary sources that have talked about it, other cases, and more.

Julian wants to find more cases.

On the right, the depth bar indicates how extensively a source analyzed or discussed the case.

It looks like several cases have analyzed Adair at length and are likely to be helpful authorities here.

Julian can also use Westfall's filters to narrow in on specific head notes or jurisdictions.

Julian saves several of these cases in his research folder to review later.

Then he jumps over to the Cited With tab for even more ideas.

This tab shows Julian what cases are often cited together with Adair.

This is yet another simple way that Westfall is doing work for him,

finding authorities or resources that other practitioners often use alongside the case Julian cared about.

Julian saves several of the cases that are most often cited with Adair to his research folder as well.

And voila!

Julian used Keysight to check his authority, find other helpful cases, and it took only minutes.

Now hop on to Westfall and see how easy it is to use tools just like these.