In our last discussion, we learned about the different sources of legal authority, and

we learned that the pool of available legal authorities is vast.

At the same time, we know that our mission for a research assignment is to locate primary,

mandatory authority for our legal issue.

We learned that the first step of any legal research assignment is to develop a research

plan.

We learned that if you craft a thoughtful research plan at the outset, the research becomes

less intimidating because your plan will help you hone in on the legal issue as well

as the body of law you will need to search to find your answer.

And now that you have these details in place, you're likely eager to begin your search.

Today we will discuss the second step in a research assignment, consulting secondary sources

to address your issue.

But before we talk about the next step in the legal research process, let's take a couple

of minutes to discuss how and where legal information is published and retrieved.

Before you dive into your research, it's important to understand how legal information is published

and stored.

Most, if not all, of the authorities you will research are available from a variety of sources.

They may be published in print, electronically, or both.

Regardless of where it is found, keep in mind that legal information is typically organized

by type of authority, jurisdiction, and source of law.

As you can imagine, secondary sources or commentary on the law are printed in their own volumes separate

and apart from primary authorities.

Furthermore, different sources of law from different jurisdictions are printed in different compiled

volumes of books.

For example, let's say you want to find a court opinion from Pennsylvania.

You will find court opinions from Pennsylvania in one set of books, called reporters, while

Pennsylvania statutes would be found in a compiled volume of a different set of books.

And if you wanted to pull a court opinion from Arizona, you would visit a different set

of reporters than those housing the Pennsylvania court opinions.

Electronic research tools are organized similarly.

Some sources, like the United States Supreme Court website, will provide access to only one

source of law from one jurisdiction.

In this example, Supreme Court opinions, which are the court opinions from the highest court in

the federal system.

Other services provide access to a wide range of authorities.

Those that do typically subdivide their contents, much like the print sources, into individual

databases organized by type, jurisdiction, and source.

Retrieving legal authority.

In practice, you will be able to find print sources in a few different places depending on

the type.

Many law firms and organizations have collections of print sources from the jurisdiction commonly

practiced in.

For example, when I practiced law in a law firm, we had reporters with state court opinions on

the shelves in our firm.

We also had the state statutes in print.

Furthermore, you can often access print sources from a local law school or courthouse.

In today's age, however, many legal authorities are widely accessible online.

The content and reliability of each site varies.

For the most part, lawyers consult specialized search engines to complete their research.

At the top end of the commercial legal research market are Westlaw and Lexis Advance, which have

been around for decades and are designed to meet the needs of researchers across jurisdictions

and topic areas.

Both have a good variety of primary and secondary sources.

A recent new player into this sphere is Bloomberg, which strengths lie in its business and news

platforms.

All of the top end research services feature a breadth of sources and sophisticated search algorithms

to support search processing.

Other legal research platforms, including FastCase and Casemaker, have less content and fewer

bells and whistles than the higher-end services.

Nevertheless, you may find yourself using them for specific content while you are a student

with us or at some point in your career.

While you are students at Syracuse Law, you have free access to the big three services, Lexis

Advanced, Westlaw, and Bloomberg.

Because we all have common access to the commercial sites, our video lectures in the coming weeks will focus on electronic

research and specifically research in Westlaw and Lexis Advance.

While Bloomberg is certainly a new and big player in the marketplace, the other two services have

time-tested reliability and offer the breadth of sources we will need for our searches.

Nevertheless, I encourage you to visit all of the services at different times for different

purposes so you can get a sense as to the range of options available and the functionality of each.

Furthermore, print versions of legal sources have had a massive impact on the research process and

therefore I will, from time to time, reference them.

Print sources are by no means obsolete.

If you know that you will utilize print sources or otherwise have a particular interest in learning

about conducting research in print, check your textbook.

You can also speak with your professor, who should be able to direct you to additional resources

in this regard.

Now that you have a well-crafted research plan, it's time to get started on your research.

The second step in your research process is to consult secondary sources.

As you recall, secondary sources are not the law.

Instead, they provide commentary on the law.

Since you know that your mission for your research project will be to locate primary, mandatory authority

on your issue, you may be wondering why consulting secondary sources is the second step on the list.

Why we use them

Have you ever consulted a study guide for class, whether here in law school or for your undergraduate

education, something that helps to explain the overlay of the subject in a more succinct and relatable way?

As you tackle an entire subject, perhaps you find the study guide, now or in the past, would be giving

you a big picture view of the topic area and how all of the pieces work together. A secondary source

can serve the same purpose.

Furthermore, have you ever read a document that uses a lot of technical jargon or lingo,

perhaps a manual or an insurance policy, and then, because it was not exactly clear,

you searched for the document on the web in the hopes that you could find a summary of what you just read?

Similarly, a secondary source can take a single document or a slice of a subject area and explain

the small details beautifully and in a way that could take you hours to understand on your own.

Finally, another advantage of a secondary source is that it will direct you to primary sources for your

area in your jurisdiction. They will provide you mandatory authority in a relatable, understandable way.

You can then use these references to pull the primary authorities. And as you will see,

having a primary source citation can help you narrow your search and pool of available sources exponentially.

With that said, if you are already familiar with the area of law you are researching, you may skip this step.

But if the area of law is new or unfamiliar to you, my unequivocal recommendation is that you save time and

frustration. Start with a secondary source. What they are. So now that we've established some reasons to

consult secondary sources. While these sources are all available, keep in mind that the usefulness of a

particular secondary source depends upon the governing law and your client's legal issues and facts.

Keep going to be how exciting works.

thatphere

98

99

100

Treatise

A treatise is a single book or multi-volume section that provide you mandatory authority

in a relatable, understandable way.

You can then use these references to pull the primary authorities.

And as you will see, having a primary source citation can help you narrow your search and

pool of available sources exponentially.

With that said, if you are already familiar with the area of law you are researching, you

may skip this step.

But if the area of law is new or unfamiliar to you, my unequivocal recommendation is that

you save time and frustration.

Start with a secondary source.

What they are

So now that we've established some reasons to consult secondary sources, let's talk

about common examples of the characteristics of each.

While these sources are all available, keep in mind that the usefulness of a particular

secondary source depends upon the governing law and your client's legal issues and facts.

Legal Encyclopedias

The first source we'll discuss is Legal Encyclopedias.

Legal Encyclopedias are similar to traditional multi-volume set encyclopedias you may have used

in grade school, except that they are limited in scope to legal subjects.

They are a great way to get general background information on an area of law, and they are typically

organized alphabetically by topic.

There are two national encyclopedias, American Jurisprudence 2nd Edition, Amjur 2nd, and Corpus

Juris Secundum, CJS.

Both of these address and provide citations to federal and state laws.

If you are researching state law, you will want to see if the particular state has its own

legal encyclopedia, as it would contain summaries and primary source references for just that state.

Examples include New York Jurisprudence, Maryland Law Encyclopedia, and Michigan Law in Practice.

A treatise is a single book or multi-volume set of books that have a narrower focus than legal

encyclopedias.

While legal encyclopedias give a general overview of a broad range of topics, treatises provide

in-depth treatment of a single subject, like torts or contracts.

Not only will it provide a general state of the law for all of the major topics in that

subject area, a treatise may discuss the history of the development of the law in that area,

analyze the relationship of subjects to one another, and discuss policy reasons for the

rules.

An example includes Dobbs' Law of Torts, 2nd.

Practice Manual

A practice manual will provide a detailed analysis of an area of law in a specific court or jurisdiction.

These differ from treatises in one primary respect.

They focus on practical applications of the law and often include tools for practicing attorneys,

like sample complaints or a checklist for filing a matter at court.

Practice manuals are usually written by practitioners or scholars specializing in that jurisdiction.

They are organized by topic and can be one volume or many.

An example is Texas Practice Contract Law

American Law Reports, ALR

American Law Reports, or ALR, is a huge multi-volume set of books full of articles called annotations.

The annotations provide a summary of law on a narrow topic in depth, as well as a table of relevant

primary authorities organized by jurisdiction, which can be quick references for finding authority

across jurisdictions.

These are especially helpful at the beginning of your research to give you an overview of a topic.

The ALR books are available for federal law, and there's also a compilation covering the states.

Legal Periodicals

The final source I will touch on is Legal Periodicals.

These are sources that provide a collection of articles discussing the law.

This includes law reviews and commercially available legal magazines.

Law review articles are thoughtful treatments of legal issues written by law professors, judges, practitioners, and even students.

They generally provide in-depth treatment on a single subject, though they sometimes include background,

which gives a general overview of the topic that can be helpful.

Commercially published magazines, such as the National ABA Journal, and local bar journals and newspapers,

such as the Los Angeles Lawyer Magazine, are legal magazines published by state or local bar associations,

which are written by practitioners or judges practicing in that area.

These provide short articles, which are focused more on describing legal developments than on analysis.

Chapter 8 of your textbook discusses other secondary sources, including restatements, loose-leaf services,

uniform acts and model codes, and jury instructions.

You will likely use different secondary sources at different times throughout your career,

and I encourage you to become familiar with them.

The key for you at this point is to know that they exist and be able to recognize them for what they are.

Secondary sources.

As I've mentioned, novice legal researchers can mistake secondary sources for primary,

a mistake you don't want to make because secondary sources are never mandatory for your issue.

Now that we've covered a handful of secondary sources in some detail,

see if you can identify the answers to the following questions.

Thank you.

How to research them.

As you can imagine, secondary sources are available in either print or online.

If you are planning to perform research within a secondary source using books,

and you are lucky enough to have the citation you need to access,

you would just go to the correct source and page.

If not, your first step would be to identify which of the print sources are available to you,

and which ones will be most helpful to you as you research your topic.

Most secondary sources, other than legal periodicals,

have indexes at the back of their volumes, which are organized by subject,

and then, within each larger topic area, subtopic.

If you know which subject you want to research,

you would then go to the index and look it up to find the references to that subject within the larger text.

Start by using some of the search terms that you identified in your research plan as you search for your subject.

You could also scan the table of contents, if available, in the beginning of each relevant subject volume.

If you plan to research secondary sources online, you are in luck.

Many of the referenced secondary sources are available on the major legal research platforms.

Secondary source material can be retrieved in a few different ways from the online legal research platforms.

You can retrieve a document directly if you have its citation.

You can browse the sources by type or subject.

Or you can perform a keyword search.

Search by citation.

First, as always, you can retrieve the document from an online source if you have the relevant citation.

You would merely enter the citation into the search bar of the research site and hit go or enter.

You would not need to apply any of the filters as long as the citation is relatively strongly constructed.

In that case, the search engine will recognize the source for what it is and immediately pull open the document.

Search by type or subject.

Furthermore, even if you don't have a citation, you can find secondary sources by browsing the secondary source by type or subject area.

If you are going to search by type, start by identifying the relevant jurisdiction you want to search and filter your secondary source options through that.

Let's go back to our example problem from last week to see how this works.

As you may recall, we have a client, Claudia Jackson, who wants to know if she can hold her landlord liable for breach of the warranty of habitability in Missouri.

Since I'm not familiar with the topic, I would want to start my research by consulting secondary sources first.

To browse through the secondary sources available for Missouri law using West law, you would first click on the state materials tab from the home page.

Click on Missouri, scroll down and click on All Missouri Secondary Sources from the next screen to view a list of all secondary sources covering Missouri law.

The process is similar in Lexis from the home screen, select the state tab to view a list of all states, click on Missouri, and then scroll down and click All Missouri Treatises, Practice Guides, and Jurisprudence to see the list of Missouri Secondary Sources.

Once you are in this database of sources, you can click on one of the sources and browse the topic areas available within it.

Or you could perform a keyword search of one or all of the secondary sources in this database.

We'll discuss this process in just a few minutes.

Furthermore, another way to search secondary sources is by general subject area.

If you want a broad overview of an area of law, generally, that's not specific to one jurisdiction, you can browse secondary sources by subject area in either West law or Lexis.

Both of these platforms have categorized their secondary sources by over 40 topics, such as contracts law, criminal law, and real property law.

To navigate to this screen, you would start from the main screen and click Secondary Sources.

Then scroll down and click on the topic area in West law or practice area in Lexis.

If you click on the topic area, you would then have to drill down through sub-subjects until you find the topic you are looking for.

If you browse the secondary sources available on both West law and Lexis, you will see that they vary widely because they each produce or own publishers that produce different titles.

I encourage you to utilize more than one platform when you conduct your secondary search so you can get a sense of the variety of materials available on each.

Another method by which to search secondary sources in either of the major online research platforms is through keyword search.

A keyword search is a simple process that consists of typing terms into a search bar and then scanning through the results.

The terms used may be as simple as a single word or as complex as a complete sentence.

No matter which service you use, there are generally two methods to complete a keyword search.

Through a natural language search or a terms and connectors search.

Natural language search.

If you have ever used Google or another popular search engine, you are familiar with the natural language search.

This is where you just enter a term or phrase and the search engine does the work for you,

returning a set of documents it believes are relevant to your question or search.

Similarly, through conducting a natural language search on one of the major legal research platforms,

you are relying on the search engine's algorithm to read the words you've entered and produce relevant information.

This is often a good place for you to start in a search engine because it will generally return many results

and push general, frequently cited sources toward the top of your results.

However, keep in mind that natural language searches often also return thousands of results,

or results not precise enough for a legal researcher.

For this demo, let's go back to our research text and review the question presented there for the research problem.

Under North Carolina law, does the illegality defense prevent a court from enforcing a partnership agreement

where the partnership was not created for an illegal purpose,

but the partners later engaged in illegal acts in performing the business affairs of the partnership?

Let's say we'd like to launch a keyword search for this question

because we know nothing about partnerships and the illegality defense in North Carolina.

Before we enter our keywords,

we'll want to be sure we've filtered out

into our search for the correct databases

so we can ensure our search is sufficiently narrowed to the pool of relevant authority for our issue.

This includes selecting the relevant jurisdiction,

North Carolina,

and or the type of authority or document you want to search.

Here, secondary sources.

Just remember,

any time you perform a keyword search

in the major commercial service platforms,

you must double-check your database selections

to ensure you've adequately narrowed your pool of sources.

So, returning to our question,

let's say we formulate a natural language search

of contract illegality defense

to start

or perhaps even more specific

partnership agreement illegality defense.

Take a break

and go run the searches identified in either Westlaw or Lexis

and see how many sources you come up with.

When I ran this search, both searches returned over 10,000 results for me in Westlaw.

In Lexis Advance, the numbers were more manageable.

For Contract Illegality Defense, I got around 579 hits.

For Partnership Agreement Illegality Defense, I got 19 results.

Because that seems like a reasonable number, I would probably start there.

But for those of you who got 10,000 results on Westlaw, or even 500-plus results on Lexis Advance, that may have felt overwhelming.

You will have a lot of results to sift through.

Furthermore, don't forget, anytime you are running a natural language search, you are relying on the search algorithm to return and order the results it believes are the most relevant.

What if the most helpful authority is actually number 472 on the list?

Terms and Connectors Search

Well, a Terms and Connectors Search, or Boolean Search, is also available.

Through this process, a legal researcher can take greater control of her search by specifying which exact words the document should or should not contain,

as well as the words' relationships to one another.

Running a Terms and Connectors Search is a great way to narrow your search if you find you've gotten too many results.

And furthermore, depending on how you craft your search, it may produce results that are much more precise.

To run a Terms and Connectors Search, you specify the relationship through logical symbols or operators,

because they operate upon the basic search function to modify the forced algorithm.

You can usually find a list of the available operators by clicking on the Advanced Search link,

which is found at or near the top of the right corner of the search bar in both Westlaw and Lexis Advance.

Remember that if you run a Terms and Connectors Search, you want to make sure you capture all variations of the terms

to ensure that you don't unnecessarily narrow your search.

Using the OR feature, the asterisk, or the exclamation point root expander

will help you to broaden the search beyond initial search terms you may have used.

So let's try an example.

Using the same contract illegality problem referenced before, we could build a more specific Terms and Connectors Search

for North Carolina secondary sources using the following operators.

The translation of this search is that the document must contain the word contract or agreement,



which must appear within the same sentence as a word that has perform at its root.

Again, a key step before running this search will be to select the relevant jurisdiction and source.

Here, choose North Carolina and secondary sources.

Take a minute to run this search in Westlaw or Lexis Advance and check out your results.

When I ran the search in Westlaw, I returned 30 results.

In Lexis, I had 29 results.

This is much more manageable than our initial natural language search.

You can always modify your operators and terms to further expand or narrow your search.

I encourage you to utilize both natural language and Terms and Connectors searches

and experiment with the different operators as you construct searches.

Conveniently, note that any time you incorporate operators into your search,

the search bar will generally recognize the search as a Terms and Connectors search.

If your search bar contains only words and no operators,

then the search engine will default to a natural language search

and utilize the built-in algorithm to determine the results it believes are the most relevant.

Now that you know the two different search methods for searching the typical legal search engines,

it's time to put your knowledge into practice.

Take a few minutes to complete the following exercise before you move on.

Hopefully you found some helpful information as a result of your search.

I ran a natural language search in both search engines using implied warranty of habitability

as my phrase.

I also ran a terms and connectors search that limited the number of results I received.

There's no exactly right answer to the terms you would use to search.

It's a matter of trial and error.

The key is that through your searches you begin to feel comfortable with your grasp on

the law.

For example, you should have determined through your search that there is indeed a claim for

warranty of habitability and its breach in Missouri.

In Lexis, I found a helpful publication of the Missouri Bar called Missouri Tort Law

Section 13.47, which talked about the ways a tenant could utilize the warranty of habitability

and included some references to Missouri case law.

I also found a great breakdown of the cause of action, including potential elements, on Westlaw

under 36 Missouri Practice Series Section 23.3.

It even provided me with that four-element test and a case site for that test, Keodini v. Fox.

Make sure you get in the habit now of taking good notes on your research trail.

You will want to make note of search terms you used, sources you consulted, and relevant

material from each.

The good news is that the major legal research platforms track your research history and

the documents you viewed, typically for a period of several months.

These are found under the History tab toward the top right of your screen on the research platforms.

While you should certainly use these to refresh your recollection, and for moments where you

may not have taken copious notes, get into the habit now of tracking your search terms, documents

retrieved, and the information gleaned therefrom.

This will save you time and headaches in the long run.

At some point during your secondary source search, you will feel as though you have a pretty good

overview of the subject area.

With that said, remember to never rely on a secondary source's analysis of a primary authority.

You must always review the underlying primary authorities and conduct your own analysis, relevant

to the facts of the issue you are researching.

Once you feel like you have a good enough grasp on the material and a solid lead on relevant

primary sources, you will be ready to move on to step three of the research process, drafting

a preliminary outline and beginning your primary authority research.

If all has gone well in your secondary source research, you should have a good background

of the law on your legal question.

You should even have some primary authorities to consult as you move along in your research.

But before you move on to pull those primary authorities, you should draft a preliminary outline

of the major issues you identified in your research.

For example, in my research for our client, Claudia Jackson, with respect to her warranty of habitability claim,

I mentioned earlier that I had found a state-specific secondary source that laid out a four-element test

for an implied warranty of habitability claim.

The Missouri Practice Series section stated that, in order to state a cause of action for breach

of an implied warranty of habitability claim, the tenant must prove, one, entry into a lease

for residential property, two, the subsequent development of a dangerous or unsanitary condition

on the premises materially affecting the life, health, and safety of the tenant, three, reasonable

notice of the defects to the landlord, and four, subsequent failure to restore the premises to habitability.

Take a minute to sketch out what you believe would be a solid preliminary outline for the warranty

of habitability claim based on the law we found.

.

Behind the claim, you will see that I included the citation from where I got the four-part test.

For now, I've left the wording for each element as it appeared in the secondary source.

I may adjust or paraphrase the language later.

Under the main claim, I've listed a rule that the tenant has the burden of proof on this claim as well.

I've included this point as its own rule.

I've included this point as its own rule because I anticipate it may become a part of my thesis or umbrella paragraph later on.

And again, I've included a note to the citation behind this rule.

I may also make a list of other cases under the different elements to the extent my research returned additional information about how each of these are interpreted.

By doing so, I am linking my outline to my research results as I proceed to actually pull the primary sources for my research.

As I proceed with my research, if I identify further issues or sub-issues that need to be addressed, I would modify my outline accordingly.

After you've made your preliminary outline, take a look at the sources and make note of the hierarchy of authorities.

If there were a relevant constitutional provision, you'd pull it first.

As you know, statutory sources would be next in the hierarchy, followed by regulations, and finally, you would pull the case law.

You should generally plan to start with the main controlling authority for your legal question and proceed down from there.

In my research, I didn't uncover a constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provision.

Thus, based on the information I have right now, it appears to be a common law issue.

Assuming I had exhausted my research into secondary sources for this topic area in this jurisdiction,

I would feel comfortable focusing my research on case law.

Of course, if I were to begin my research and determine that there was a controlling statute on this issue,

we'd have to make some adjustments to my outline and my plan.

But based on the information I currently have, starting with controlling case law appears appropriate for now.

Next week, we will do just that.

We will go and pull the relevant case law to start our primary law research.

to continue.

and find theberryza Media согласor Group wan оп Power și Funали.

Therefore, if I can date law firmaffe駕 horas,

So this is not going to be alright.

For any review?



I won't control it!

I want to activate all the directors and przyjrz piedze!

These two even set suite� folks!

lifereFO How to do it!

And that's amazing!

i niemie!

2

and I need nothing.

So this was not just the planning thing.

Well, I know, the report show пог tief.

More time, I'll go.

The report sent ya website$3

If I know now, I can have a examination

or five Although even camera's subject.

core self-Is Dave?

We know the information it's charged- dynamo.

Hello, and welcome to Legal Communication and Research 2, or LCR 2, which is the second

legal communication and research class that you will experience while you are a student

here at Syracuse University College of Law.

My name is Debra Sundquist O'Malley, and along with Professor Eliza Milner, we will be your

professors for the asynchronous portion of LCR 2 in the JDI program.

During your first semester of LCR, you learn how to formulate a legal analysis and predict

outcomes based on the law.

In LCR 2, you will utilize these skills, and you will build on them.

Learn the key aspects of conducting legal research, a skill that you will continue to develop

as you move on in your career.

You will also learn to use your legal analysis skills to present a legal argument that persuades

another to make a decision that favors your client.

You will learn this in the context of motion practice and advocacy before a trial judge.

With that said, during the first few weeks of this course, we will focus on legal research.

We will learn about sources of law, where and how to find them, and how to develop and launch

a research plan.

We will introduce you to the tools you need to be an effective researcher.

We're glad you're here.

Now, let's get started.

Imagine you've been asked to go out and catch a fish for dinner.

Where will you go to catch the fish?

What tools will you use?

Will you need a boat, or will you stand on the shoreline?

And for that matter, what kind of fish are you even looking for?

How will you know if it's edible?

If you're like me, you know very little about how to catch a fish, and therefore, where

you will even begin to do such a task.

And the questions I have posed are baffling.

The options seem limitless, and you have a lot to learn before you even attempt the task

of catching a fish.

But if you know something about fishing, or have fished before, this task may seem less

intimidating.

You may know exactly where you will go to catch a fish, what tools you will use, and

how you will get to it.

Like any task, the more you understand about the topic, here, fishing, the more comfortable

you will be embarking on the task.

Before you just go out and stick a net in the ocean, you will want to have a plan in place.

You will want to perhaps identify the type of fish you want to catch.

Determine where, a lake or a body of water, you will go to catch it.

And you will get a boat there, and which tools, perhaps a fishing pole and a lure fishing hook,

you will need to catch the fish.

Once you've learned the basics and have a plan in place, it's just a matter of getting

out there and doing it.

Beginning a legal research project is, in many ways, like being asked to go out and catch

a fish for dinner.

If you have conducted legal research before, you know that the ocean of legal authority

is vast.

Statutes, constitutions, case law, rules and regulations, primary sources and secondary

sources, mandatory authority and persuasive authority.

The seemingly limitless array of potential sources can be intimidating.

If you cast your net too wide, then you will catch many of these sources, including those

that are irrelevant.

And you will waste precious time.

But if you plan your research well, if you understand the facts, you grasp the precise

question you have been asked to answer, you identify the authorities that are likely to

be relevant, and you know where and how you will find them, then your research will be

much less frustrating and much more efficient.

Now, before we get into the details of planning your research, let's start by reviewing the

sources of American law and the hierarchy of authority and consider how these will impact

your research.

Federalism and sources of American law.

As you know, the United States employs a federal system of government.

This means that our entire country and all of those living and working within its boundaries

are bound by the laws of the United States.

Furthermore, each state in the Union has its own set of laws.

Citizens and those within the state must abide by the laws of their particular state.

With that said, a constitution establishes a system of government and defines the boundaries

of authority granted to that government.

The United States Constitution is the preeminent source of law in our legal system and all other

rules, whether promulgated by the federal government or a state government that falls within its borders,

must align with it.

The U.S. Constitution acts as an umbrella over other sources of law.

So while a state's constitution may grant greater rights than those secured by the federal

constitution, it cannot provide lesser rights than the federal constitution does.

And thus, all of a state's legal rules beneath the umbrella of its constitution, no matter

what form, must comport with both the federal and its state's constitution.

Thus, in a federal system, two separate governments can share lawmaking power over the same territory.

Note that the federal constitution has been interpreted to reserve lawmaking authority for some matters

for itself, like immigration and interstate commerce.

All other matters, like issues of family law and property ownership, are generally left to the state's

state's control so long as their laws do not run afoul of the federal constitution.

The U.S. Constitution and state constitutions divide governmental authority into three branches,

each of which contribute rules to the body of law within its jurisdiction.

The legislative branch makes laws in the form of statutes,

the executive branch in the form of rules and regulations,

and the judicial branch in the form of court opinions.

As you know, courts interpret the rules provided by the legislative and executive branches of

government, but they can also be an independent source of legal rules, known as common law.

Thus, as between the federal government and the 50 states,

you can see that the available potential sources of law are vast.

The sources we have referred to thus far constitute the law in force in their jurisdiction,

or the rules with which its citizens must abide.

Constitutions, statutes, administrative rules and regulations,

and case law are also referred to as primary authority.

As you conduct your research, in addition to finding these primary authorities,

you will also find secondary authorities.

Secondary authorities are sources that summarize, analyze, or comment on the law,

and they are typically written by private individuals, businesses, and organizations.

They include law review articles, treatises, and hornbooks,

and they can be very helpful to you as you try to understand a legal issue.

To a novice legal reader, secondary authorities can at times look like primary authorities.

But these sources are not the law, and therefore, you will generally not cite them in court documents or legal memoranda.

At times, it can be hard to tell them apart.

When in doubt, always look it up.

Let's look at some examples.

Please review each of the authorities listed in the following activity,

and see if you can identify which are primary authorities and which are secondary authorities.

Mandatory vs. Persuasive

Now, you can see that one step you will need to take when you research is to distinguish

between primary authority, or law, and a secondary authority, which is everything else.

But even if you've determined that the source is the law, you must also consider whether it will apply to your controversy.

Binding or mandatory authority and non-binding or persuasive authority are terms courts use to categorize

different sources of law they use in making their decisions.

Mandatory authority refers to a primary authority that the court is obligated to follow.

These are the rules that will decide the issue or controversy.

Persuasive is a term used to describe authorities, whether primary or secondary,

that the court may follow if it is persuaded to do so.

So, how do you determine whether a primary authority is mandatory or persuasive to your question?

Well, one factor affecting whether a primary authority is binding is jurisdiction.

A rule contained in a primary authority will apply only to conduct occurring within the jurisdiction

in which the authority is in force.

For example, say I am driving on a road in New York and get pulled over by a police officer for speeding.

Assuming there was no indication that I'd violated a federal law,

for example, a trucking regulation regulating interstate commerce,

a trucking regulation.

It's very likely that New York's laws will control.

As we know, New York can generally regulate conduct taking place within its border.

Thus, New York's motor vehicle laws would be binding or mandatory on my conduct.

Take a minute to indicate whether the authorities in the following exercise

would be mandatory or persuasive to a New York court, assuming they're on point.

Take a minute.

All right.

That box is always been trained.

What are you doing?

I'm in the organization.

Oh, many of you have.

I've day not had things preparedness.

So, now you might have –

I can stand up when I was under the operation.

Please take a minute to answer a few questions about the weight and hierarchy of authority.

Ultimately,

thank you.

Ms.



has specifically asked you to research whether Jackson has a viable claim against Eddie for

breach of the implied warranty of habitability. What do you do? How do you begin to determine

the answer to this question? As you know from our earlier discussion, your mission will be to

locate primary, mandatory authority for your issue. And as we've learned, your pool of potential

legal sources is vast and can overwhelm even the most seasoned of researcher if you launch a search

without a strategy. Thus, your first step in attacking this problem should be to develop a

research plan. This is just the first step in a multi-step process, which includes planning your

research, followed by consulting secondary sources, consulting primary authorities,

expanding and updating your case law research, and finally analyzing and organizing your results.

Think of developing your research plan as planning your fishing expedition.

You need to gather as much information as possible before you actually go out and drop your net or

cast your rod. You need to know where you will go, what tools you will use, and what kind of fish you

want to catch. While you will develop your own research plan and style as you become a more seasoned

researcher, there are a few details that you should grasp before you dive into your research. The four key

items I like to make note of before I begin my research include the determinative and background facts, the

mandatory authority for my legal issue, my research question presented, and a list of potential search terms. I

recommend that you write down all components of your research plan and update it as you go along in your research.

List of key facts

First and foremost, you should inventory your facts to make sure you have a good grasp of the events that gave rise to

the legal dispute. I typically jot down a list of determinative and background facts for the issue.

Include what you believe may be the legally determinative facts, as well as any additional facts that may help the

story gel. In addition, take special note of the answers to the following questions. Who, what, when, where, and why.

So first, who are the parties to the litigation and what is their relationship to each other?

What is the alleged wrongful conduct? And what person or thing caused the injury?

When did the injury occur? And under what circumstances?

Where did the injury take place? And why does your client want to sue or is she being sued?

Here are the facts I have included in my research plan as relevant to this cause of action.

I identified the client as the plaintiff and tenant, Claudia Jackson.

I also identified the defendant as the landlord, Sam Eddy.

I made note that eight months ago, she rented an apartment from the defendant in St. Louis, Missouri.

I also made a note to question the dates, the exact dates of the rental.

I made note that at the start of the rental and continuing on, the plaintiff has experienced itchy red marks, rash, or bites on her skin.

I also made note of the fact that the defendant sends an exterminator who found a spider nest, and the exterminator suggested to respray.

I made a note of the fact that the plaintiff is not sure whether the respray was completed, and I also jotted a note to myself to confirm whether that respray may have been completed and the dates that it was done.

I made a note that two weeks ago, the plaintiff went to an urgent care, and that the doctor identified the marks of spider bites.

I also made a note that one week ago, the plaintiff moved out after she saw two spiders in the kitchen.

Finally, I identified the fact that the client, plaintiff, tenant here wants to sue for breach of the implied warranty of habitability.

For the most part, you will see that my bullet points go point by point through the fact pattern given, as it was pretty succinct.

While I didn't specifically put them in the who, what, when, where, why format, I did inventory my facts to make sure I had all those questions answered.

You can see I've listed the parties, their relationship as landlord and tenant, and their potential positions in the litigation.

I've included the plaintiff's injuries, the spiders, and the location of the apartment.

I've listed the time frames that I have, and I mentioned the suit.

You will also see that I've included some questions, particularly concerning dates of events, as well as a note to confirm the fact that the client seems uncertain about.

In fact, one of the advantages of sketching out facts ahead of time and using the who, what, when, where, why method to hold yourself accountable is that it will help you identify gaps in your understanding.

If you don't think you have all of the facts, or if you are uncertain about something that you believe may bear on the legal outcome, ask.

Another advantage of using the who, what, when, where, why method of sketching out your facts is that it should help you as you identify which jurisdiction's law will apply.

Mandatory authority.

That is another consideration in a research plan.

Identifying what we believe will be the mandatory authority for this cause of action.

This step is important because in considering potential relevant areas of law, you begin the process of narrowing your pool of applicable legal authorities.

Sometimes the mandatory authority for your project will be provided to you.

Other times you will have to determine it on your own.

Either way, if you're able to enter the research project with a sense as to which laws will apply, that's the ideal, as it will save you time and energy in your research.

If you're not sure, you will have to do some research to figure it out.

As you consider which jurisdiction's laws will apply, some things to think about include whether the issue is civil or criminal, and the areas of law or claims that are at issue.

You might make a note like property or torts negligence claim.

Think both broad and narrow.

Overall, the aim here is to generate enough information to help you identify whether it's a federal or a state issue, and if it's state, which state's laws will apply.

This will also help you begin to determine which sources of law may be involved.

For example, if you've identified the matter as criminal, you would know that you will likely need to consult the controlling jurisdiction statutes and case law.

Once I've identified what I believe to be the controlling jurisdiction, I also make a list of the specific binding primary authorities I believe would apply in this situation.

So, any constitutions, statutes, regulations, and court opinions.

I generally try to be as specific as possible, actually calling these sources by name.

I also specifically identify the binding courts by name.

In light of all this, let's take a look at what I would have noted with respect to Ms. Jackson's issue in the planning for her mandatory law.

You will see that I have written the matter as a civil suit.

This is because I know that we are dealing with a private, civil matter between a tenant and a landlord.

This is not a criminal action brought by a government.

As far as areas of law, I know that my suit involves a landlord and a tenant.

And I am certain that this is a relationship that is regulated under the law.

So, that's why it's gotten its own topic area in my areas of law list.

But I also included the broader topics of property, contract, and even torts law.

Because, frankly, I'm not quite sure where the implied warranty of habitability claim will fit into these bodies of law.

I can go back and adjust this as it becomes clearer through my research.

But right now, it was a way for me to get into thinking about the potential sources of law for my issue.

Speaking of which, I know that property law, contract law, and tort law are all areas traditionally controlled by state law.

So, knowing that, and knowing that the lease and the injury in question both happened in St. Louis, Missouri,

I was able to surmise that this is a state law matter in which the court will apply Missouri law.

Again, you may need to fill in or adjust this later on as more information becomes available to you in your search.

You will see that I've therefore identified the revised statutes of Missouri and Missouri Code of Regulations as the authorities that could apply here.

Through a quick web search, I identified the primary sources of law in Missouri.

I've left out the Missouri Constitution from this list because I don't believe there's a constitutional question that could play into this fact pattern.

I could always go back and add it in should I change my mind.

Finally, you can see that I've found and listed the two appellate courts that would be above our trial court in the line of appeal.

The Missouri Court of Appeals for the Eastern District and the Supreme Court of Missouri.

Again, through a quick web search of the court hierarchy of Missouri,

I was able to identify which trial-level court I would likely file my suit in, in St. Louis,

and then I was able to find its direct line of appeal.

Question presented.

The next stage of my research plan will build upon the facts I noted and the mandatory authority I identified.

I will draft my research question presented.

Chapter 1 of your text provides some good tips for drafting your question presented.

Think about any abstract concepts at play in the fact pattern, such as the relationship of the parties,

the legal issues involved, the relief sought and or possible defenses to enforcement,

and the facts you anticipate will be relevant to the analysis.

I encourage you to include a reference to the controlling jurisdiction.

In essence, you want to try to capture the key issues presented by the research question

and incorporate the facts that you believe may impact the outcome.

Now, using the details of the research plan we've drafted so far,

take a few minutes to sketch out what you believe may be an accurate question presented

for Ms. Jackson's problem.

Now, take a look at the question presented that I drafted in connection with Ms. Jackson's research problem.

Under Missouri law, does a tenant have a claim against her landlord for breach of the implied warranty of habitability,

where the tenant experienced spider bites on her skin throughout her eight-month tenancy?

The landlord sent an exterminator to the apartment who confirmed the presence of a spider's nest

and recommended re-spraying,

and there's no indication that the landlord took this further step to resolve the problem?

You will see some of the key components include the controlling law through my initial reference to Missouri law

and my reference to the party's relationship by naming them as landlord and tenant.

As I mentioned earlier, I anticipate that this is going to play a big role in the analysis,

and so I made sure to include their relationship in my question presented.

Furthermore, I mentioned the claim at issue here, breach of the implied warranty of habitability,

and the fact that it's the tenant who seeks to discover if she has a claim.

The rest of the question presented is made up of the facts that I anticipate could be important to the outcome here,

specifically, her spider bites and the fact that the landlord sent an exterminator to her apartment,

that exterminator saw a spider's nest and recommended re-spraying,

and the fact that there's no indication the landlord ever requested it.

This, for the most part, captures much of what I believe will bear on the outcome.

And once again, I may modify this once I begin to conduct my research.

Like other parts of my research plan, this is a work in progress.

The last stage of my research planning is developing search terms.

This is when I generate words and phrases I will utilize as I search my sources for relevancy to my legal issue.

Through this process, you will develop a list of words and concepts that are likely to be useful as you search for sources to analyze your legal problem.

As you brainstorm, consult details from the other portions of your research plan.

Include the facts from your fact list that you believe will help you find the law on your issue,

as well as any facts that might help you pick up analogous cases.

Consider the who, what, when, where, why facts you identified.

You should also include any terms you may have identified in your question presented,

including legal claims and defenses or potential relief.

For any terms or facts that are central to the cause of action, identify variants or synonyms.

For terms that are specific, include on your list their broader counterparts.

Using the research plan I'd developed, I identified some search terms and phrases I thought might help me in my research here.

For example, you will see that I listed and highlighted here the claim warranty of habitability,

which was provided to me for my research assignment.

I also included the landlord-tenant relationship in my search terms.

Furthermore, I thought that the fact that this involved a residential lease and apartment would be important,

based on the fact that I know that commercial leases are treated somewhat differently than residential leases under the law.

Furthermore, I listed spiders and infestation in my plan,

because those will be relevant to the problem the tenant experienced here.

But I thought that those terms might be too narrow to catch everything,

so I also added variants, including bugs, insects, and vermin, to the list.

I also put roaches and bedbugs as potential alternatives.

I thought that I might find analogous cases with those terms.

I put the term dangerous condition in there with a question mark.

While that term might have a specific meaning that does not encompass a spider in a leased apartment,

I also don't want to rule it out as a potential way to describe the condition here.

I want to look that up and see if it, or some variant of it,

might encompass how my situation is viewed by the courts.

Finally, you will see that I included a couple of phrases, too.

Landlord, notice of dangerous condition, or landlord response slash dangerous condition.

Again, the facts that were given to me made me wonder if Ms. Jackson gave adequate notice to her landlord of the spider situation.

I thought that the landlord might try to argue that he was not given enough notice of the spider situation.

So I made a note of this phrase, thinking I might later incorporate it into my search.

Also, given the facts, I had thought the landlord might try to argue that his response by sending out the exterminator was appropriate, given the circumstances.

I made a note of that idea, with the goal that I would look into what response to such a condition might be appropriate.

While you may have put different terms on your list, that's fine, these terms are just a start.

The key is that you have identified important concepts before you begin the research process.

As you can see, legal research is complex, and to the uninitiated, it can be overwhelming.

But with some foundational knowledge and proper planning, it is manageable.

In the coming weeks, we will discuss the different sources in greater detail, including common and helpful secondary sources, as well as how to research case law, statutes, and regulations.

We will also learn more about how you can check to see if your authority is still good law.

In the meantime, start thinking about how you will plan your research for your upcoming assignment.

And again, recognize your plan for what it is, a draft and a work in progress, subject to edits, as you conduct your research.

Several simple Westlaw features will save you hours of research time by streamlining how you

take research notes, how you organize your research, automatically adding citations to

your writing, and more. First, you should know about three simple features you can use right

within your document's text. First, notes and highlights. Take notes or highlight cases,

statutes, or other documents right within Westlaw, and your annotations will be saved every time

you return to that document. You can even share your notes and highlights with others. That way,

when they open the same document, they will see all of your great work. Second, copying with

reference. In other words, copying a citation. Instead of trying to write out the full citation

on your own, just copy text from any document, and Westlaw will create a citation and automatically

add it when you paste your text. Even the pin site, the particular page your text was copied from,

will be inserted in the site. Another simple must-use feature when diving into your research

is folders. Create folders for each research project, or each issue within a project, and

save any cases, statutes, or anything else in one place so you can find it later. And what's brilliant

is not only can you save the entire document in folders, but also snippets of text that you want

to use later. But Westlaw's folders do even more than just store documents or text snippets. For one

thing, Westlaw will constantly update the key site information, so if a case or statute is later

rendered invalid, you can see it at a glance right inside your folder. For another thing, Westlaw offers a

special folder analysis feature that analyzes the documents from your folder and suggests missing

authority or helpful research topics. Just upload all the relevant documents for an issue you're working on,

do the rest. One of the neatest tools in folders is a research report. With a click of a button,

Westlaw will prepare a quick report of all the research you put in the folder. This is great

if you want to quickly capture a snapshot of your research for yourself or others on your team.

The report will list every source in your folder as well as summaries of each. Finally, you can add

notes to folders, upload your own documents, search across all your folders, and even share folders

with others. You're bound to find some great research one day and then forget about it later.

Westlaw's research history makes jumping back in your research a breeze. You can review all your

recent searches or all the recent documents you've viewed. You can search within your history to

quickly find that document you're looking for. And you can even peruse a visual history that will show you each step in your

research process, just in case you ever need to go back. Finally, as you research, you'll start to see

that Westlaw is always helping guide you to helpful authority. One feature constantly doing this is

research recommendations. As you work within Westlaw, an algorithm automatically notices patterns in

your searches and documents that it uses to make recommendations to you. Westlaw's research

recommendations will suggest legal issues, cases, statutes, and secondary sources related to your

research. It even focuses on the jurisdictions you select. Let's jump on Westlaw and see how a law clerk

uses some of these simple features. Marco is working on a memo about a disability discrimination claim

under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Marco found some very helpful quotes in a case,

Osborne v. Baxter, and wants to make sure he can find them later. He considers just casing them into an open

Microsoft Word document, but Westlaw offers better tools than that. First, Marco can copy any snippets

of text with the citation already included. All he needs to do is highlight the text, then pick the

citation format. Here he wants Blue Book, so he sticks with the standard format. Next, Marco can highlight

and add notes right in the document so that he can be sure to remember why the snippet was helpful. He can

even color code his notes or highlights to keep track of different issues. Another law clerk on his team,

Andrea, is also interested in some of these same legal issues. No problem. Marco can download this case

with his notes and highlights included, or directly share a link to the case, and Andrea will be able

to see Marco's annotations too. Now Marco is ready to save his case for later and continue researching.

Westlaw folders makes that easy. He just clicks the folder icon and selects which folder to save

the case in. Marco is ready to keep researching. Luckily, Westlaw has been learning from his

research and the cases he puts in his folders. Marco can see research recommendations anytime by

clicking up here in the research recommendations. Westlaw is constantly working to help you find more

and more relevant cases in other sources. Marco can also click on folder analysis and ask Westlaw to

review the cases in this folder and suggest other helpful research to add. Marco can see topics populating the

legal issues panel. For each of these issues, there are recommendations of cases, statutes, and court rules, as well as secondary

sources related to his topic. Finally, Marco's done for the day, but he wants to share what he found with Andrea

so that she can use it for her research. He simply selects the research report button, and voila, an organized report

of everything he found. Marco annotated his cases, used AI search features, and organized his research, all without

leaving Westlaw. Now hop on to Westlaw and try these cutting-edge features and tools for yourself.



Let's watch out.